# Spells

Spells are cast using magic results during a magic action and can affect the game in different ways, from increasing roll results, to inflicting damage, to summoning dragons!

Each spell has a number of attributes which are detailed below. Spells are resolved one at a time in the order cast.

**Element / Alloy**  
There are seven spell elements; Death, Air, Water, Fire, Earth, Elemental and Alloy. The following rules apply to the element of magic:
- Spells of a single element (Death, Air, Water, Fire, and Earth) may only be cast using magic results of that element.
- Spells of a single alloy (Bronze, Gold, and Silver) may only be cast using magic results of that alloy.
- Elemental Spells may only be cast using magic results of any single element.
- Alloy Spells marked "Any" may only be cast using magic results of any single alloy.
- Ivory magic results may only be used to cast Elemental spells.

**Casting Cost**  
This is the number of magic results required to cast a spell. Any number of spells can be cast up to the number of magic results generated by the army. Unused magic results are lost at the end of the army’s action.

Some spells may be cast via the ‘Cantrip’ SAI as well as during a normal magic action. When this SAI is rolled, its results may be spent as magic results only on spells marked with an X in the ‘C’ (Cantrip) column in the spell lists below. Normal restrictions for element and species still apply to casting these spells.

**Species**  
This indicates the species requirement of the spells. Some spells may only be cast using magic results generated by units from a specific species. Spells marked ‘any’ may be cast using magic from any species that can cast elemental spells.

**Targeting of Spells**  
- Every spell has a specified target: army, unit(s), terrain, DUA or BUA.
- Spells that target a terrain affect all armies at that terrain.
- Spells that target an army are fixed at that army location. If the army moves, the spells do not move with the army.
- Individual units that are targeted by a spell will be affected by that spell even if they move to another army.

Most spells require the casting army to be located at a terrain, however a limited number of spells may be cast from the Reserve Area. Those spells are marked with an X in the ‘R’ (Reserves) column in the spell lists.

**Duration**  
Some spells have instantaneous effects. Most have effects which last until the beginning of your next turn.

If an army is destroyed (all of its units are killed) or otherwise no longer exists at a terrain or Reserves Area at the end of any turn step, any spells affecting that army end. If a unit is killed any spells affecting it end.

**Effect**  
Each spell has a different effect on the game state. Effects that modify a particular type of roll follow the usual process explained under ‘Die Roll Resolution’ (see @27_rules_reference_die_roll_resolution.md).

Many spell effects are cumulative; this means that multiple castings of that spell may be combined to create a single spell with a stronger effect. To make understanding this easier, any aspects of a spell that have a cumulative effect are highlighted in the text for that spell, like this – one. When a spell is cast in this way, multiply the highlighted effect(s) by the number of combined castings. For example, if you were to combine three castings of Wind Walk, then the spell would add twelve results, rather than four.

Any spell that has a cumulative effect may instead be cast multiple separate times (unless otherwise stated), with a different target each time. For example, if you were to cast Palsy three times (costing a total of six magic results), you may subtract three results from any one target, one result from each of three targets, or two from one target and one from another.

For any spell that does not have a highlighted number, multiple castings have no additional effect if cast on the same target. 