# Items

There are many powerful objects in Esfah. Some are magical tools used by the armies of Esfah to gain an advantage in their endless wars, and are called “items.” There are four varieties of items: equipment, artifacts, medallions, and relics. Like units, items have a point cost for including them in your force:
| Die | Points | X Value
|-|-|-
| Small Four-sided Equipment | One | One
| Medium Four-sided Equipment | Three for each pair (two points for the first and one point for the second - while the Medium dice do not need to be brought as a pair, the first is always two points). The two Medium dice do not need to match. | Two
| Large Four-sided Equipment | Two | Three
| Artifact | Three | Four
| Medallion or Relic | Four | Four

**The following rules apply to all items:**  
- Item results are not modified by species abilities.
- Items do not have health and may not take damage.
- Magic from items may be used to cast species spells if at least one unit of that species is in the casting army.
- Items are not assigned to a specific unit.
- An item may only move from a terrain or reserves, to another terrain or reserves by a unit carrying it.
- During setup of starting forces, all items must be placed in an army such that a unit can carry it.
- If there are ever more items in an army than there are units able to carry them, the owner of the army must bury the excess items.
- Items are rolled during all army rolls. However, an item may only be rolled if a unit capable of carrying it is also rolled.
- Items may never be rolled during, or be targeted by, an individual targeting effect.

## Equipment

Equipment are four-sided dice that have only one type of normal action icon: Maneuver, Melee, Missile, Magic, and Save. Equipment dice come in three different sizes: Small (18mm), Medium (20mm), and Large (22mm). Like large six-sided units, large equipment also have an SAI on one face. Equipment does not have an ID icon. Equipment follows these rules in addition to the rules for all items:
- Equipment items are made up of a single element.
- Magic results generated by equipment are always generated in the element of the equipment.
- Each unit may carry and use up to two equipment items (or artifacts, or one of each).
- Only a unit that contains the element of the equipment may carry or use it. Amazon units may use equipment of any element. Undead units may only use death equipment.

## Artifacts

Artifacts are ten-sided item dice. Unlike four-sided equipment, artifacts have multiple types of normal action icons, but favor one type over the others. Artifacts also have an ID icon and SAIs. Artifacts adhere to the same rules as equipment, described above.

Like ten-sided monster dice, Artifacts have a single icon on each face. Each icon generates four results and the ID icon generates four of whatever results you are rolling for.

## Medallions and Relics

Medallions and relics are very large, metallic, non-elemental items. Both medallions and relics follow these rules in addition to the rules for all items:
• Medallions and relics lack elements, so any unit may carry and use a medallion or relic.
• Because medallions and relics are so powerful, a unit that carries one may not carry a second item.

### Medallion SAI

Medallions are four-sided items that come in three alloys: bronze, silver, or gold. Medallions have a unique SAI, which has the following effect:
| Name | Applies | Effect
|-|-|-
| Bronze Medallion | •Magic <br>•Non-Maneuver | •During a magic action, this SAI generates X magic results of any element. <br>•During any non-maneuver roll, this SAI works like the Cantrip SAI, which generates X magic results that only allow you to cast spells marked as ‘Cantrip’ from the spell list, ignoring the normal species or element requirements.
| Silver Medallion | •Non-Maneuver | •During any non-maneuver roll, choose one of the following: <br>- Return one item from your BUA to the army carrying this medallion. <br>- Return one Dragonkin unit or minor terrain from your BUA to your Summoning Pool. <br>- If at a terrain, move a small (1 health) Dragonkin unit from the Summoning Pool to the army, or promote one health-worth of Dragonkin to the army carrying the medallion.
| Gold Medallion | •Non-Maneuver | •During any non-maneuver roll, you may return up to four health-worth of units from your DUA to the army carrying this medallion.

### Relics

Relics are large six-sided items. These ancient items are created from Eldrymetallum (also known as "star metal"), a metal not native to Esfah, the world of Dragon Dice.

**Elemental Relic**  
- When rolled with an army, the Elemental Relic icon indicates which element units must contain to be affected by the relic. The SFR Logo contains all elements and ivory, but not alloys.
- Multiple Elemental Relics in an army may cancel each other. Elemental Relics that roll the same element have no effect on that roll. Note that the SFR logo matches all elements.
- During any non-maneuver roll, X health-worth of matching units in the army carrying this relic may be re-rolled once, ignoring the previous result, or you may recruit X small (1 health) matching units to, or promote X health-worth of matching units in, the army carrying this relic. Results may be split between recruiting, promoting, and re-rolling in any way you choose. Any promotions and recruitments happen all at once.

**Earthfang Relic**  
When rolled with an army, Earthfang has numerous SAIs that are documented under the SAI section. The SFR Logo is here:
| Name | Applies | Effect
|-|-|-
| Earthfang | •Magic <br>•Missile <br>•Melee* <br>•Dragon Attack | •During a magic or missile action, this SAI summons a Chill Wind. Subtract two results from all army rolls at this terrain until the terrain is successfully maneuvered to a new facing. This effect is cumulative. <br>•During a melee attack, this effect is delayed until after the target army rolls for saves. Target one unit that rolled an ID icon. The target is killed. None of their results are counted towards the army’s save results. <br>•During a dragon attack, kill one dragon that rolled Jaws. If no dragon rolled Jaws, Earthfang generates four melee results.